welcome to the tutorial After Effects
scripting for absolute beginners at the
end of the tutorial you will be able to
write a script that applies an
expression to all the properties you
have selected in After Effects but even
better you will also have a good
understanding of all the different
aspects of scripting I will discuss all
the concepts one by one so it come very
clear how each part of the code works if
you want to know a specific thing I'll
put timestamps for all the things I
cover in the description let's begin
scripts for After Effects are
essentially automated actions that are
performed by After Effects so we command
After Effects by telling you to do
different actions everything that we
normally do with our mouse and keyboard
to interact with After Effects can also
be done with scripting to command After
Effects we need to speak its language
which is unfortunately not English but
extend script extend script is a
variation of JavaScript so if you know
JavaScript you'll come a long way in
this tutorial I will assume that you
don't know any JavaScript yet so I'll
start really simple and build from there
to write code and run it in
after-effects we'll need a code editor
you can download extend script toolkit
CC from the Adobe website this is a
special program that's created for
creating code and then running it in the
Adobe product so you can also make
scripts for Photoshop etc so just go to
this link I'll put a link on my website
and my website a link in the description
and then just go to extend ship toolkit
CC and just download and Windows or Mac
version so I'll put it on this website
here you can click on the link here I
also have other resources about
variables functions and things we're
gonna cover in a tutorial where so if
you want to read more about it just go
to that website and click on the links
and read you'll learn a lot so now this
is the code editor we are gonna code for
other author effects so then you just
click here and then select author
effects and then click on this icon it
may be read and then after fact isn't
started yet so if you click on it it
will automatically start after effects
up and
if we write code in here we can send
this go to author effects and then we
can test the code life so you can write
code in air send it to officer fix by
clicking on this green icon and see what
happens so the first thing we're gonna
cover is variables variables are very
important and they store information
that we use within our programs and we
can manipulate these variables and it
also provides a way of labeling data so
we can read our program more easily a
variable you create by typing far for
variable and then the name of your
variable I'm just gonna type my variable
and then typing equals a variable to
contain text you always need to use
quotation marks so text that you want to
display is always in quotation marks
remember that
so my text just put it in here and then
with extend script we always end the
line with a semicolon 1 semicolon not 2
so this is our first line of code and we
declare a variable by typing 4 and then
the name of the variable equals and then
your text variable can contain text it
can contain numbers it can contain a
boolean a boolean is just I'm true or
its false so that's the boolean you can
also contain a list of items but I'll go
into that later so for now we're just
gonna use my my variable text now if you
want to just quickly test this in
after-effects we can write alert alerts
creates a pop-up and after-effects and
you can input the text you want to pop
up to display within these two
parentheses so we just type my variable
so this now points to this variable and
this variable contains this text so what
we actually do is we send this text
width into this alert function and now
when we run it look after effects and we
put the code into After Effects and this
is what we get out of it my computer is
lagging my er variable text so now you
we just change we change this variable
click on one again we change the text
and we rename variables mostly by using
camel case camel case means that the
first letter of the variable is a small
letter and then instead of spaces you
can have spaces in your variable names
so instead of spaces we just use capital
letter so my variable is who would be
like this without spaces but
capitalizing the first letter of each
word
so that's camel case and I recommend to
use that so when you see like this you
like know it's a variable because the
first letter is small and the next
letters are capital so for naming
variables there are a couple conventions
you can't use dashes or something you
can't begin with a number you can't have
spaces so you can just like this and
then space it's case sensitive it has to
be unique yeah that's about it so
remember that next functions the best
example I can give you a function is
this so alert was a function that we
used functions are also kind of like
variables they don't contain like text
or numbers but they contain actions so
actions you want something you want to
perform so functions you can call on
them and then they just do the actions
that are in the functions you can type a
function by typing function no
Sherlock
and then typing the name of the function
just just like the variable then typing
these parentheses and then two curly
brackets
now the thing we want to function to do
we can put inside these curly brackets
so if we want to put this function
within my new function we can just do it
like that and now whenever we call my
function like this we run the code that
is within this function so we run this
alert code so we can type my function
like four times and run this code and
we'll get four pop-ups so that's great
if you want to spam people with your
plugin so we can do a lot of things with
functions you can make generic
caller conversions for example where a
function just has color conversion
logics inside of it if you want to do a
color conversion you of course need to
know what color you're gonna convert so
a function can also have parameters
parameters you input within these two
parenthesis if we now have color value
for example so now we can use this color
value to do different things so we can
now also just do an alert because that's
easy
and then just input the color value in
here and now when we call this function
we can use my function and then we can
input a color value so whites for
example and then we can use that color
value within the function now we just
use it to print again so we'll run this
we'll print our color value but you can
do a lot of different things with
function function can also return stuff
so if we want to create a new function
that's we're just going to name calc for
calculation and then we're just gonna
return 5 plus 6 most difficult
calculation ever and now when we input
this calc function within our new
function
so what well now will happen is we call
on this function and the color value
will will be this function and this
function is gonna run and it's gonna
return 11 so it will be actually just to
be 11 in here but we don't type 11 we
just type our function so what we're
gonna do is you're gonna just print 11
on the screen like that so that's
functions now let's move on to some
cooler stuff and we're gonna actually do
manipulate objects within After Effects
and actually do useful things because
this you can't really do useful things
with this but you need to know it if you
want to program anything in extend
scripts JavaScript and extend script or
both object-oriented languages which
means that they revolve around using
different objects to perform actions
extend script objects contain attributes
and methods these are things that we can
use to manipulate the object to do
certain things attribute are things that
object has and methods or actions that
object can do I will use a circle object
as an example the attributes of a circle
object can for example we color and
diameter methods for a circle object can
be bounce or transform we can use these
by typing or object name and using and
thoughts and then calling on these
attributes and methods to manipulate
them for example circle dot color equals
an N a color code which would set the
circle color to green a more practical
example would be the application objects
from After Effects this object contains
a lot of attributes version settings
project memory news is watch folder is
render engine effects disable rendering
build number build name available GPU
axle types an active viewer the
different methods for the application
object are activate begin suppress
dialogues begin undo group cancel task
well a lot of them artifacts is
completely divided into objects so you
can tell the program how to work the
diagram shows the object structure of
After Effects here you can see that
application contains a project the
project can contain items by referencing
these items in our code we can
manipulate them
to dive deeper and all the objects that
you can use in author effects you can
read the documentation this contains all
the definition of the object attributes
and methods you can also use the data
browser in a sense toolkit to
explore the objects so the goal or
script is going to be to select an ik
property and put an expression on it but
to put an expression on a property we
first need to know what property I have
selected so do we have a positions like
to do with a skill selected to get the
current properties that are selected we
can use the object structure to get the
selected properties do this by typing
app dot project dot active item so we go
into the app we go into the project we
go into the active item with which means
the current composition that we have
selected so this we have this
composition select so that's the current
active item and then we do selected
properties so now this selected variable
has the selected properties that we have
selected in After Effects but we can act
we can select multiple properties in
After Effects so this returns an array
so I'm first going to explain to you
what an array is so an array is a
variable type and it can contain
multiple values you create an array by
using these square brackets and typing
values within these square brackets so
value 0 and then comma for the next
value value 1 comma value 2 now I'm just
inputting a normal number in here you
can input anything you want in there
input a boom into that we talked about
and then just input hello world because
you know this is tutorial
it needs how the world in there you know
to access one of these things
we type the array name so our our
variable name is array and then we again
type these square brackets and then we
type the ID of the element that we want
and the ID start at 0 this so this has
ID 0 this has ID 1 this has added to
this has ID 3 in this has ID 4 so you
always need to remember that it starts
at 0 because the second element actually
has an ID of 1 so the second element is
1 but it's the second element so the
third element actually has an idea of to
the 4th of 3 so now we have just select
this one so if we want to select the
property that we currently have selected
in the selected properties we just type
selected and then the square brackets
again and then 0 so we select the first
property that we have selected now we
can do things with this property we can
see what the value is so let's do that
and we're just going to alert the value
on the screen of our selected property
so now go into After Effects I'm just
gonna select the property opacity and
then run this code now we have a script
alert 100 because our opacity in here is
100 now we can also change the opacity
value my computer is lagging because I'm
running stuff we do that by typing set
value which is a function and we set the
value by typing something the value in
here so now we're just gonna set the
value of our current selected property
to 30 run the script or passively gonna
go and go to 30 so now our pasady is 30
so now we can manipulate these things
and our script is gonna manipulate the
expressions you can just type dot and
expression and then just type anything
we want our expression to be for example
loop out look if we still have that
passively selected so we're gonna put a
loop out on this opacity and we're just
gonna make it flash so we have the
opacity selected now let's go back run
this and look it now has an expression
set on it and it's loop out another way
we can utilize the after-effects object
structure is by setting an undo group we
do that by typing app dot begin and do
group now you need to type a name of
this undo group I'm just gonna type in
my script action and then we also need
to end the undo group app dot and and do
I recommend you do this for every for
every big action that your strip does
because now when a user control sets you
just undo all the things that are within
this undo group so if you run this code
now for example on the rotation if you
run this code bow there's an ngon
expression on the rotation as you can
see loop out expression and here when we
see edit we can undo the mice at my
script action undo that now the rotation
doesn't have it anymore
I recommend you do that for all the big
actions you create in your scripts so
what happens right now in our code is we
get all the selected properties and then
we put an expression on the first one
but what happens if we don't select any
property so we don't have any property
selected right now what if you run it
it's gonna get an error and it's gonna
say down here undefined it's not an
object stop our code by clicking on here
so what happens is our selected
properties return undefined so then they
selected here
this variable is going to be undefined
and we try to set an expression on
undefined and against an expression or
nothing so it just returns an error so
how do we prevent this we use an if
statement so with an if statement we can
check something so we type if and then
these parentheses and within these
parentheses we can type in condition we
can check something and if that
something is true we can run the code
that's within these curly brackets so
for example I'm just gonna alert a
message and in here I'm also just gonna
create a new variable quickly my number
is equal to 10 and I'm gonna check is my
number is bigger than 10 or equal to I'm
just gonna check this if my number is
bigger than or equal to 10 it's gonna
alert this message so if I run this code
now it will get an error because and
this returns an error so just a quick
tip if you double slash before a line of
code you comment it out and after
effects just skips this code so we just
skip this code now we only run this when
we run it we get a message we get the
message with message in it because 10 my
number is 10 and that is equal to 10 so
this will return true if it's now if we
make it smaller 5 and we run it it's got
not gonna do anything after fact it
didn't do anything it's not gonna do
anything because this if this statement
here returns false so we're just gonna
skip this whole code we can catch that
by typing an else here and we say if
that is false so if this statement is
false then we do
code that's within these curly brackets
we activate this code so now it's false
now we actually get a message to buy
thing so that works and it's alright we
also can use an else if so we also can
extend this if statement by also typing
another condition by making another
condition and checking another another
statement we're gonna also check if my
number is equal to 100 so if my number
is bigger than I'm gonna check it in my
numbers equal to 6
my number is bigger than or equal to 10
it's gonna have this message my number
is equal to 6
it's gonna have a 6 and else it's just
gonna do I'm just gonna say else so my
number is now 5 so this will return
false
this will also return false because my
number is not equal to 6 so it's just
gonna return else as you can see if you
want to compare two numbers we don't use
one equal sign we use to because if we
do 1 equal sign it just it's gonna act
like a variable so it's gonna say my
number is now the value 6 but we don't
we don't want that going to compare it
so that's why we use two equal signs
here we also can do is have an
exclamation mark this means if my number
is not equal to 6 so we can do that and
now 5 will this will return true so this
will activate and then what alert is not
6 because it's not 6 we now make it 6
again this will return false this will
return false so it will be it will say
else
so one last thing I want to show you one
last thing I want to show you with it if
L statements you can also extend this
statement by typing an N to n like this
and then you can have another statement
in here is equal to nine
so now what you're going to check if
this is true and this is true so if both
are true then we alert this then we do
these actions you can also have these
two lines down and that means if this is
true or this is true so this is an or
operator and this is an end operator so
you can also use that in your if
statements now back to our code if you
want to check if the selected variable
has any properties we can write if
selected and because this is an array we
can use the dot length and with an array
dot length returns the length of that
array so the amount of items it contains
so if this if we have three things
selected this will become three if we
have nothing selected this will return
this will be nothing so we can check if
length is zero so we don't have anything
selected we can just alert to the user
please select the property please select
a property else we can activate this
code and set a loop out
so if we run this right now it's gonna
say please select the property and if we
then actually select the property you're
near actually select rotation go back
and run the code it actually sets an
expression on rotation as you can see
rotation now has the loop out expression
then we can controls at it because we
made an undo group so that's awesome
so now we check if the selected property
is not know if it's not now we can set
an expression but what if we have
multiple property selected now we only
get set the expression on property 0 so
what we then need to do needs a loop
through all the different properties
that are in that array and when you do
that by using a for loop so to write a
for loop you just write 4 and then these
parentheses and then these curly
brackets within these and then within
these parentheses we're gonna write 3
statements first I'm gonna write I is 0
we need to so far I we need to make a
variable um
I call it I for index and set it to 0
this is the variable that starts so if
the for loops get called as first this
will run then we need to check for every
loop we do we need to check do I still
want this loop to run are we at the end
of the loop or do I still need to
continue so I check that by checking if
I is lower then select the dot length
so now every time we loop we check is I
already bigger than all the properties
the length of our array if it's already
bigger than the length of our array
there are no properties left so we can
just quit if it's still bigger if it's
still not big enough so it's still
smaller than the length we can we have
another property left so we can set
another expression and then we type I
plus plus and this just means actually I
is I is equal to I plus 1 so this I plus
plus actually means this so it just adds
1 to the I variable now what we do now
we have so first we start the for loop
we set an I property then every time we
run the loop we check is it still
smaller than the length of all our
properties and if it's still smaller we
run this code and at the end we add 1 to
the I so now we loop through that whole
selected and array so now we type
selected and here we we put the I inside
these square brackets and then we just
put this in here like that and now we
what we do is we loop through all the
selected properties and then we put a
loop out expression on there so now if
we also remove the expression from this
one just gonna remove that and we're
gonna put it on position scale and
opacity just on all these select all
these go back and run this code it ran
and look now there's a loop out
expression on all of these property so
now we loop through all of them now we
can set the loop out expression our
selected properties but what if we don't
want to use the loop out expression but
we want just to give the user the
ability to type in any expression any
once we need a UI for that
in this tutorial I'm not gonna go
in-depth into how to build a UI so you
can just go to the page I licked in the
description and copy this code over here
this is a piece of code that just
creates the UI for us in another
tutorial I'll dive deeper and how to
actually create a UI but for now this
will have to do so just paste it in here
now we have this function and that
creates an expression panel so a UI
panel and now I'm also gonna put this in
a function so just gonna create a new
function and expression and then curly
brackets with our all our code that we
created within that that expression
function indent it right so it's more
readable and now we're gonna edit this
so we can actually put in something and
then we we get the value so we get the
text that our user put in so here we
create an expression panel and talked
over here we need to create a couple of
variables so we need to create an apply
button so the button that and we click
to apply the expression and an input
expression keresh in but as you can see
over here we already have those
variables so I create a variable here
and then here I set the variable and I
set it to an edit text with 25
characters now we just need to call this
expression panel at the top of our we
also need to add this piece of code so
we need to wrap all our code in in this
function in this general function which
returns this object and that's just
actually our app object
like this and like this time position
here so now we can give this object into
that expression panel because we need it
in here to create the panel so now when
we run this it will actually create this
panel and on the button we apply an on
click event and that unclick event
actually fires off this expression so
the onclick event fires off the ad
expression what we now still need to do
is over here when we click on the button
it will still put our our expressions on
loop out we actually want the to get the
text from this expression input and we
do that by typing expression input dot
text so we get the text from this
expression input now when we run this I
hope everything is alright yes we have
this panel over here as you can see now
it's set on loop out we can change it we
can for now I'm just gonna undo what we
just did
select opacity click on apply and look
we apply an expression on this one if we
want to change this to loop in light
over there we can apply to loop in
expression so we can so select multiple
expressions and apply to multiple
expression so we can just type an
expression in here and apply it on a lot
of different properties so that's it now
we have an working piece of code now
that the code is tested and it works we
can input it in after effects so now
that so that when the next time we
started up it will just be in here in
the window you can just select it from
there so to do that I'm just going to
close this not safe
I'm gonna save this file for now I'm
just gonna save it on the desktop and
how you name this file that's also the
name that will show up in the drop down
in After Effects so I'm just gonna name
it Express Express script 1 save it now
I'm gonna close this and here we have
our expression script now I'm gonna go
to this PC go to the place where you
have installed your for me it's in
Program Files over here and then Adobe
and then go to After Effects support
files and then go to scripts script UI
panels now put your code in here
continue move our expression script on
into there now close this one start up
After Effects and now we can just open
our script from within After Effects and
use it and then you have built your
first script congratulations
so still a few tips and if you're
debugging if you're controlling your
application if you're checking if
everything is working use a lot of
alerts within your code so that you can
go through it one by one and alert what
happens so you know where the code is
going which if statements it's using how
many times it's looping and so forth
that's really handy you can also use
comments that I showed you with the
double forward slash to just describe
what you're doing just to say here I'm
looping through the function here I'm
doing this here I'm doing that it
doesn't help the code but it helps you
understand the code when you open it up
and in a later date then when you're
opening up three months later you forgot
showed me what your written and it's
nice when you still have those common
they're to know and to quickly grasp
what you did actually I also try to use
descriptive variable names it makes it
way easier to read it in the future and
also I link a couple of helpful sites on
my site so you can go through there go
read the documentation and figure it out
on your own and just try different
things and and set a goal for yourself I
want to do this with a script and try to
make it a reality and probably you come
across a lot of problems and you will
fix all of those then in the end you
will have a great script like this one
maybe something that's even better
accustomed to what you want just gonna
open this one now here we can scroll
down and have our expression script open
it and here we have it our expression
script now we can have it open we can
just select things we can select the
transform opacity and apply and it works
it has expression so thank you for
watching see you in the next tutorial